thank you very much everybody
well thank you very very
much vice president Vance speaker
Johnson Senator
th chief justice
Roberts justices of
the United States Supreme
Court President Clinton President Bush
President Obama President
Biden vice president
Harris and my fellow
citizens the Golden Age of America
begins right now
from this day forward our country will
flourish and be respected again all over
the
world we will be the Envy of every
nation and we will not allow ourselves
to be taken advantage of any
longer during every single day of the
Trump
Administration I will very simply put
America first
our sovereignty will be reclaimed our
safety will be restored the scales of
Justice will be
rebalanced the vicious violent and
unfair weaponization of the justice
department and our government will
[Applause]
end and our top prior prity will be to
create a nation that is proud prosperous
and
free America will soon be greater
stronger and far more exceptional than
ever
before I return to the presidency
confident and optimistic that we are at
the start of a thrilling new ER of
national success a tide of change is
sweeping the country sunlight is pouring
over the entire world and America has
the chance to seize this opportunity
like never before but first we must be
honest about the challenges we face
while they are plentiful they will be
annihilated by this great momentum that
the world is now witnessing in the
United States of
America As We Gather today our
government confronts a crisis of trust
for many years a radical and corrupt
establishment has extracted power and
wealth from our citizens while the
pillars of our society lay broken and
seemingly incomplete
disrepair we now have a government that
cannot manage even a simple crisis at
home while at the same time stumbling
into a continuing catalog of
catastrophic events
abroad it fails to protect our
magnificent law-abiding American
citizens but provide sanctuary and
protection for Dangerous criminals many
from prisons and mental
institutions that have illegally entered
our country from all over the world we
have a government that has given
unlimited funding to the defense of
foreign borders but refuses to defend
American borders or more importantly its
own people our country can no longer
deliver basic services in times of
emergency as recently shown by the
wonderful people of North Carolina been
treated so
badly and other states who are still
suffering from a hurricane that took
place many months ago or more recently
Los Angeles where we are watching fires
still tragically burn from weeks ago
without even a token of defense they're
raging through the houses and
communities even affecting some of the
wealthiest and most powerful individuals
in our country some of whom are sitting
here right now they don't have a home
any longer that's
interesting but we can't let this happen
everyone is unable to do anything about
it that's going to change we have a
public health system that does not
deliver in times of disaster yet more
money is spent on it than any country
anywhere in the world and we have an
education system that teaches our
children to be ashamed of themselves in
many cases to hate our country despite
the love that we try so desperately to
provide to them all of this will change
starting today and it will change very
[Applause]
quickly my recent election is a mandate
to completely and totally reverse a
horrible
betrayal and all of these many betrayals
that have taken place and to give the
people back their faith their wealth
their democracy and indeed their freedom
from this moment on America's decline is
over
our liberties and our nation's glorious
Destiny will no longer be denied and we
will immediately restore the Integrity
competency and loyalty of America's
government over the past eight years I
have been tested and challenged more
than any president in our 250e history
and I've learned a lot along the way the
journey to reclaim our Republic has not
been an easy one that I can tell you
those who wish to stop our cause have
tried to take my freedom and indeed to
take my life just a few months ago in a
beautiful Pennsylvania field an
Assassin's bullet ripped through my
ear but I felt then and believe even
more so now that my life was saved for a
reason I was saved by God to make
America great
again thank you very much
that is why each day under our
administration of American Patriots we
will be working to meet every crisis
with dignity and power and strength we
will move with purpose and speed to
bring back hope Prosperity safety and
peace for citizens of every race
religion color and Creed for American
citizens January 20th 2025 is Liberation
day it is my hope that our recent
presidential election will be remembered
as the greatest and most consequential
election in the history of our
country as our Victory showed the entire
nation is rapidly unifying behind our
agenda with dram itic increases in
support from virtually every element of
our society young and old men and women
African-Americans Hispanic Americans
Asian Americans Urban Suburban Rural and
very importantly we had a powerful win
in all seven swing States and the
popular vote we won by
millions of
people to the Black and Hispanic
communities I want to thank you for the
tremendous outpouring of love and trust
that you have shown me with your vote we
set records and I will not forget it
I've heard your voices in the campaign
and I look forward to working with you
in the years to come today is Martin
Luther King day and his honor this will
be a great honor but in his honor we
will strive together to make his dream a
reality ity we will make his dream come
[Applause]
true National Unity is now returning to
America and confidence and pride is so
ing like never before in everything we
do my Administration will be inspired by
a strong pursuit of excellence and
unrelenting success we will not forget
our country we will not forget our
Constitution and we will not forget our
God can't do that
today I will sign a series of historic
executive orders with these actions we
will begin the complete restoration of
America and the revolution of common
sense it's all about common
sense first I will declare a national
emergency at our Southern border
[Applause]
all illegal entry will immediately be
halted and we will begin the process of
returning millions and millions of
criminal Ali back to the places from
which they
came we will reinstate my remain in
Mexico
policy I will end the practice of Catch
and
Release and I will send troops to the
southern border to repel the disastrous
invasion of our country
[Applause]
under the orders I signed today we will
also be designating the cartels as
foreign terrorist
[Applause]
organizations and by by invoking the
alien enemies Act of
1798 I will direct our government to use
the full and immense power of federal
and state law enforcement to eliminate
the presence of all foreign gangs and
criminal networks bringing devastating
crime to us soil including our cities
and inner cities
as commanderin-chief I have no higher
responsibility than to defend our
country from threats and invasions and
that is exactly what I am going to do we
will do it at a level that nobody's ever
seen before next I will direct all
members of my cabinet to Marshall the
vast Powers at their disposal to defeat
what was record inflation and rapidly
bring down costs and prices
[Applause]
the inflation crisis was caused by
Massive overspending and escalating
Energy prices and that is why today I
will also declare a national Energy
emergency we will drill baby drill
America will be a manufacturing Nation
once again and we have something that no
other manufacturing Nation will ever
have the largest amount of oil and gas
of any country on Earth and we are going
to use it let me use
it we will bring prices down fill our
strategic reserves up again right to the
top and Export American Energy all over
the
world we will be a rich Nation again and
it is that Liquid Gold under our feet
that will help to do it with my actions
today we will end the green New Deal and
we will revoke the electric vehicle
mandate saving our Auto industry and
keeping my sacred pledge to our Great
American Auto
[Applause]
Workers in other words you'll be able to
buy the car of your
choice we will build automobiles in
America again at a rate that nobody
could have dreamt possible just a few
years ago and thank you to the order
workers of our nation for your inspiring
vote of confidence we did tremendously
with their
vote I will immediately begin the
overhaul of our trade system to protect
American workers and families instead of
taxing our citizens to enrich other
countries we will tff and tax foreign
countries to enrich our citizens
for this
purpose we are establishing the external
Revenue
Service to collect all tariffs
duties and revenues it will be massive
amounts of money pouring into our
treasury coming from foreign sources the
American dream will soon be back and
thriving like never before to restore
competence and Effectiveness to our
federal government my Administration
will establish the brand new Department
of government
[Applause]
[Music]
efficiency after years and years of
illegal and unconstitutional Federal
efforts to restrict free expression I
will also sign an executive order to
immediately stop all government
censorship and bring back Free Speech To
America never again will the immense
power of the state be weaponized to
persecute political
opponents something I know something
about we will not allow that to happen
it will not happen again under my
leadership we will restore Fair equal
and impartial justice under the
Constitutional rule of
law and we are going to bring Law and
Order back to our cities
[Music]
this week I will also end the government
policy of trying to socially engineer
race and gender into every aspect of
public and private
life we will Forge a society that is
colorblind and Merit based
as of
today it will henceforth be the official
policy of the United States government
that there are only two genders male and
female this week I will rein State any
service members who were unjustly
expelled from our military for objecting
to the covid vaccine mandate with full
back
[Applause]
pay and I will sign an order to stop our
Warriors from being subjected to radical
political theories and social
experiments while on duty it's going to
end
immediately our Armed Forces will be
free to focus on their sole Mission
defeating America's enemies
[Applause]
like in 2017 we will again build the
strongest military the world has ever
seen we will measure our success not
only by the battles we win but also by
the wars that we end and perhaps most
importantly the wars we never get into
my proudest Legacy will be that of a
peacemaker and unifier that's what I
want to be a peacemaker and a unifier
I'm pleased to say that as of yesterday
one day before I soued office the
hostages in the Middle East are coming
back home to their
families thank
you America will reclaim it it rightful
place as the greatest most powerful most
respected Nation on Earth inspiring the
awe and admiration of the entire world a
short time from now we are going to be
changing the name of the Gulf of Mexico
to the Gulf of America and we will
restore the
name of a great President William
McKinley to Mount McKinley where it
should be and where it belongs
[Applause]
President McKinley made our country very
rich through tariffs and through Talent
he was a natural businessman and gave
Teddy Roosevelt the money for many of
the great things he did including the
Panama
Canal which has foolishly been given to
the country of Panama after the United
States United States I me think of this
spent more money than ever spent on a
project before and lost 38,000 lives in
the building of the Panama Canal we have
been treated very badly from this
foolish gift that should have never been
made and Panama's promise to us has been
broken the purpose of our deal and the
spirit of our treaty has been totally
violated American ships are being
severely
overcharged and not treated fairly in
any way shape or form and that includes
the United States Navy and above all
China is operating the Panama Canal and
we didn't give it to China we gave it to
Panama and we're taking it back
[Applause]
above all my message to Americans today
is that it is time for us to once again
act with courage Vigor and the Vitality
of History's Greatest
civilization so as we liberate our
nation we will lead it to new heights of
Victory and
success we will not be deterred together
we will end the chronic disease epidemic
and and keep our children safe healthy
and disease free the United States will
once again consider itself a growing
Nation one that increases our wealth
expands our territory builds our cities
raises our expectations and Carries our
flag into new and beautiful Horizons and
we will pursue our Manifest Destiny into
the Stars launching American
astronauts to plant the stars and
stripes on the planet Mars
[Applause]
ambition is the lifeblood of a great
nation and right now our nation is more
ambitious than any other there's no
Nation like our
nation Americans are explorers Builders
innovators entrepreneurs and
Pioneers the spirit of the frontier is
written into our hearts the call of the
next great
adventure resounds from within our
souls our American ancestors turned a
small group of colonies on the edge of a
vast continent into a mighty Republic of
the most extraordinary citizens on Earth
no one comes
close Americans push thousands of miles
through a rugged land of Untamed
Wilderness they crossed deserts scaled
mountains braved Untold dangers won the
wild west ended slavery rescued Millions
from tyranny lifted billions from
poverty harnessed electricity split the
atom launched mankind into the heavens
and put the universe of human knowledge
into the palm of the human hand if we
work together there is nothing we cannot
do and no dream we cannot achieve many
people thought it was impossible for me
to Stage such a historic political
comeback but as you see today here I am
the American people have spoken
I stand before you now as proof that you
should never believe that something is
impossible to do in America The
Impossible is what we do
best from New York to Los Angeles from
Philadelphia to Phoenix from Chicago to
Miami from Houston to right here in
Washington
DC our country was forged and built by
the generations of patriots who gave
everything they had for our rights and
for our
freedom they were farmers and soldiers
Cowboys and Factory workers steel
workers and coal miners police officers
and Pioneers who pushed onward marched
forward
and let no obstacle defeat their Spirit
or their
pride together they laid down the
railroads raised up the skyscrapers
built great highways won two world wars
defeated fascism and communism and
Triumph over every single challenge that
they
faced after all we have been through
together we stand on the verge of the
four greatest years in American history
with your help we will restore America
promise and we will rebuild the nation
that we love and we love it so much we
are one people one family and one
glorious nation under God so to every
parent who dreams for their child and
every child who dreams for their future
I am with you I will fight for you and I
will win for you we're going to win like
never before
thank
you thank
you in recent years our nation has
suffered greatly but we are going to
bring it back and make it great again
greater than ever
before we will be a nation like no other
full of passion courage and
exceptionalism our power will stop all
wars and bring a new spirit of unity to
a world that has been angry violent and
totally
unpredictable America will be respected
again and admired again including by
people of religion faith and good will
we will be prosperous we will be proud
We will be strong and we will win like
never before we will not become
conquered we will not be
intimidated we will not be broken and we
will not fail from this day on the
United States of America will be a free
Sovereign and independent nation we will
stand bravely we will live proudly we
will dream boldly and nothing will stand
in our way because we are Americans the
future is ours and our golden age has
just begun thank you God Bless America
thank you all thank
you thank you very much thank you very
much